Problem 12. Development Environments

    Perform a research (e.g. in Google or Wikipedia) and provide a short list with popular development environments (IDEs) like Visual Studio.
    Write in a text file called “list-of-IDEs.txt” at least five IDEs along with 2-3 sentences about each of them. Use English.


Some IDEs(Integrated Development Environments) are dedicated to a specific programming language, allowing a feature set that most closely matches the programming paradigms of the language. 
However, there are many multiple-language IDEs, such as: 

 --> Eclipse: In computer programming, Eclipse is an integrated development environment (IDE). It contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. 
Written mostly in Java, Eclipse can be used to develop applications. By means of various plug-ins, Eclipse may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages: 
Ada, ABAP, C, C++, COBOL, Fortran, Haskell, JavaScript, Lasso, Natural, Perl, PHP, Prolog, Python, R, Ruby (including Ruby on Rails framework), Scala, Clojure, Groovy, Scheme, and Erlang. 
It can also be used to develop packages for the software Mathematica. 
Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for C/C++ and Eclipse PDT for PHP, among others.
 
 --> IntelliJ IDEA: IntelliJ IDEA is a Java integrated development environment (IDE) for developing computer software. 
It is developed by JetBrains, and is available as an Apache 2 Licensed community edition, and in a proprietary commercial edition.
 
 --> MyEclipse: MyEclipsE 2014 is a commercially available Java EE and Ajax IDE created and maintained by the company Genuitec, a founding member of the Eclipse Foundation.
MyEcliPse is built upon the Eclipse platform, and integrates both proprietary and open source code into the development environment.

 --> Oracle JDeveloper: JDeveloper is a freeware IDE supplied by Oracle Corporation. It offers features for development in Java, XML, SQL and PL/SQL, HTML, JavaScript, BPEL and PHP. 
JDeveloper covers the full development lifecycle from design through coding, debugging, optimization and profiling to deploying.
With JDeveloper, Oracle has aimed to simplify application development by focusing on providing a visual and declarative approach to application development in addition to building an advanced coding-environment. 
Oracle JDeveloper integrates with the Oracle Application Development Framework (Oracle ADF) - an end-to-end Java EE-based framework that further simplifies application development.
The core IDE exposes an API that other teams in Oracle use to build extensions to JDeveloper. BPEL, Portal, Business Intelligence and other components of the Oracle platform. 
All build their design-time tools on top of JDeveloper. The same IDE platform also serves as the basis of another Oracle product, SQL Developer, which Oracle Corporation promotes specifically to PL/SQL- and database-developers.
 
 --> NetBeans: NetBeans is an integrated development environment (IDE) for developing primarily with Java, but also with other languages, in particular PHP, C/C++, and HTML5. 
It is also an application platform framework for Java desktop applications and others.
The NetBeans IDE is written in Java and can run on Windows, OS X, Linux, Solaris and other platforms supporting a compatible JVM.
The NetBeans Platform allows applications to be developed from a set of modular software components called modules. 
Applications based on the NetBeans Platform (including the NetBeans IDE itself) can be extended by third party developers.
The NetBeans Team actively support the product and seek feature suggestions from the wider community. Every release is preceded by a time for Community testing and feedback
 
 --> Codenvy:Codenvy provides a container-based development environment whose goal is to remove the need for developers to configure or maintain local or VM-based developer environments for their projects. 
Primary elements of the developer environment include:
    An IDE (integrated development environment)
    Source-code manager integration
    Build environments (for a compiled language)
    Debugging tools
    Docker-based, user-controlled containers for running projects
Codenvy's platform is hosted on a microservices architecture that provides isolated workspaces for developing, compiling, and executing applications. 
Codenvy is available as SaaS or as downloadable software for on-premises installations and is based on the Eclipse Foundation's Che project.
Codenvy offers pre-defined build/run/debug environments for over 30 programming languages including Java, JavaScript, PHP, Android, Python, Ruby, C++ and Go. 
Alternatively, users can create custom environments using a JSON-based recipe and Dockerfiles (which can also be sourced from Docker Hub).

 --> Microsoft Visual Studio: Microsoft Visual Studio is an integrated development environment (IDE) from Microsoft. 
It is used to develop computer programs for Microsoft Windows, as well as web sites, web applications and web services. 
Visual Studio uses Microsoft software development platforms such as Windows API, Windows Forms, Windows Presentation Foundation, Windows Store and Microsoft Silverlight. 
It can produce both native code and managed code.
Visual Studio includes a code editor supporting IntelliSense as well as code refactoring. 
The integrated debugger works both as a source-level debugger and a machine-level debugger. 
Other built-in tools include a forms designer for building GUI applications, web designer, class designer, and database schema designer. 
It accepts plug-ins that enhance the functionality at almost every level—including adding support for source-control systems (like Subversion) 
and adding new toolsets like editors and visual designers for domain-specific languages or toolsets for other aspects of the software development lifecycle 
(like the Team Foundation Server client: Team Explorer).
Visual Studio supports different programming languages and allows the code editor and debugger to support (to varying degrees) nearly any programming language, provided a language-specific service exists. 
Built-in languages include C, C++ and C++/CLI (via Visual C++), VB.NET (via Visual Basic .NET), C# (via Visual C#), and F# (as of Visual Studio 2010). Support for other languages such as M, Python, and Ruby among others is available via language services installed separately. 
It also supports XML/XSLT, HTML/XHTML, JavaScript and CSS.
Microsoft provides "Express" editions of its Visual Studio at no cost. 
Commercial versions of Visual Studio along with select past versions are available for free to students via Microsoft's DreamSpark program.